[Back to Home](https://madelinejmeyers.github.io)\
[Back to Portfolio](index.md)\
[Go to Projects](projects.md)

# Professional Self Assessment

During the beginning of my coursework at Southern New Hampshire University I have learned many fundamentals of programming and data analysis. I have used multiple programs to understand what to look for when it comes to well-structured programs and user features. It is for this reason that when I was creating my dashboard application I knew that many users would be looking for specific features such as a pie chart and histogram to examine distributions of the dashboard’s characteristics. It also was important to include a map that shows the specific points referenced in the dashboard’s longitude and latitude coordinates since these features were included with the database I was working with. The database is managed with MongoDB and as such I also knew I would need to leverage the features of this database structure to enhance my ability to search the data for any specific data points. This led me to better understand indexing strategies which can be used for many different database structures and database software.

To help with my ability to collaborate in a team environment I have hosted the code of my software on a GitHub repository which allows for feedback from other users of the GitHub platform. When it comes to working with a team it is important for everyone to be able to work with the same code and to update it regularly if there are any updates. This is why GitHub was chosen as this not only acts as a community for the code but also as a method of version control. This also allows for communication with stakeholders by showcasing the code in a single place that can show what changes have been made while encouraging a description of the changes and the logic behind why they were made. This can help with creating a more non-technical explanation of the code and how the changes will improve the code.

Data structures and algorithms are the heart of my code as they work together to handle the creation of the dashboard and the ability to filter the data for each user’s specific uses. Likewise, security is a major concern as the application should be able to keep the data it is showing secure from those who would want to use it without authorization while allowing those who are authorized to easily work with the data and transform it for further analysis.

# Artifacts Introduction

To showcase my ability to work with software engineering as a concept I have also created a more modernized version of the dashboard. While the original was written with Python with some HTML to manage the formatting of the dashboard the new version is written as a true Full-Stack application written with Python and JavaScript using the Flask and React frameworks. The original showcases my ability to create a well-functioning web-based application while the new version showcases my ability to recreate the application with new frameworks that enable a better scalable application through the modularity of the code while also allowing for a better application for production deployment. To create the best version of this full-stack application it was important to use the original Jupyter Notebook version as a prototype so I could identify what the important features were and how they worked together. This shows my ability to work on a smaller scale and to use the lessons learned from the initial project to inform the full scale project. 
